_research/methane-on-mars.md, before:

---
title: "Methane on Mars"
layout: single-portfolio
excerpt: "<img src='/images/research/curiositySlice_posterLarge_noSky_wFractures-01.png' alt='Cartoon of Curiosity measuring methane on the surface of Mars'>"
collection: research
author_profile: true
order_number: 10
header: 
#  og_image: "research/epr.png"
tags:
  - planetary science
  - Mars
  - barometric pumping
---


<div style="text-align: center;">
<img src='/images/research/curiositySlice_posterLarge_noSky_wFractures-01.png' 
width='500px'>
</div>



This research seeks to move us towards a better of understanding of methane in Mars' atmosphere. It applies some of my previous work in terrestrial [barometric pumping](/research/baro-pumping/) to address the question of underground methane sources on Mars. 


## Highlighted Article

<b>Ortiz, J. P.</b>, Rajaram, H., Stauffer, P. H., Harp, D. R., Wiens, R. C., & Lewis, K. W. (2022). Barometric Pumping Through Fractured Rock: A Mechanism for Venting Deep Methane to Mars' Atmosphere. <i>Geophysical Research Letters</i>, 49(14), doi:10.1029/2022GL098946.

<!-- > There are many regions that meet the necessary conditions for sovereign governance in the world, but few secessionist conflicts.  -->

[Page](/publication/2022-mars-baro-grl){: .btn--research} [Article](https://agupubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1029/2022GL098946){: .btn--research}  [Supplemental Information](/files/pdf/research/Ortiz et al. - 2022 - SI - Barometric pumping through fractured rock A mechanism for venting deep methane to Mars' atmosphere.pdf){: .btn--research} 

This article was also featured on the [cover](https://agupubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/epdf/10.1002/grl.62460){: .btn--research} of this GRL issue:

<div style="text-align: center;">
<img src='/images/research/GRLCover.jpg'
width='250px'>
</div>

<!-- [Preprint](/files/pdf/research/Turning the Lights on.pdf){: .btn--research} [Replication Archive](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/suppl/10.1177/07388942211015242){: .btn--research} [GitHub Repo](https://github.com/jayrobwilliams/conflict-preemption){: .btn--research} -->

<!-- ## Manuscript in preparation -->
<!--  -->
<!-- Rob Williams. "Keeping a Lid on it: How Government efforts to Prevent Secession Attempts can Fail." Presented at the International Studies Association Annual Convention, Toronto, ON, March 2019. -->
>

Commit message:

Some changes to poster and Research entries.

_research/methane-on-mars.md, after:

---
title: "Methane on Mars"
layout: single-portfolio
excerpt: "<img src='/images/research/curiositySlice_posterLarge_noSky_wFractures-01.png' alt='Cartoon of Curiosity measuring methane on the surface of Mars'>"
collection: research
author_profile: true
order_number: 10
header: 
#  og_image: "research/epr.png"
tags:
  - planetary science
  - Mars
  - barometric pumping
---

<!-- <div style="text-align: center;"> -->
<!-- <img src='/images/research/curiositySlice_posterLarge_noSky_wFractures-01.png'  -->
<!-- width='500px'> -->
<!-- </div> -->
<!-- *Cartoon schematic of Curiosity measuring methane on the surface of Mars.* -->

<img src='/images/research/curiositySlice_posterLarge_noSky_wFractures-01.png' 
width='500px'>

*Cartoon schematic of Curiosity measuring methane on the surface of Mars.*


This research seeks to move us towards a better of understanding of methane in Mars' atmosphere. It applies some of my previous work in terrestrial [barometric pumping](/research/baro-pumping/) to address the question of underground methane sources on Mars. 


## Highlighted Article

<b>Ortiz, J. P.</b>, Rajaram, H., Stauffer, P. H., Harp, D. R., Wiens, R. C., & Lewis, K. W. (2022). Barometric Pumping Through Fractured Rock: A Mechanism for Venting Deep Methane to Mars' Atmosphere. <i>Geophysical Research Letters</i>, 49(14), doi:10.1029/2022GL098946.

<!-- > There are many regions that meet the necessary conditions for sovereign governance in the world, but few secessionist conflicts.  -->

[Page](/publication/2022-mars-baro-grl){: .btn--research} [Article](https://agupubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1029/2022GL098946){: .btn--research}  [Supplemental Information](/files/pdf/research/Ortiz et al. - 2022 - SI - Barometric pumping through fractured rock A mechanism for venting deep methane to Mars' atmosphere.pdf){: .btn--research} 

This article was also featured on the [cover](https://agupubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/epdf/10.1002/grl.62460){: .btn--research} of this GRL issue:

<div style="text-align: center;">
<img src='/images/research/GRLCover.jpg'
width='250px'>
</div>

<!-- [Preprint](/files/pdf/research/Turning the Lights on.pdf){: .btn--research} [Replication Archive](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/suppl/10.1177/07388942211015242){: .btn--research} [GitHub Repo](https://github.com/jayrobwilliams/conflict-preemption){: .btn--research} -->

<!-- ## Manuscript in preparation -->
<!--  -->
<!-- Rob Williams. "Keeping a Lid on it: How Government efforts to Prevent Secession Attempts can Fail." Presented at the International Studies Association Annual Convention, Toronto, ON, March 2019. -->
>

## Poster

[Page](/talks/conference_posters/2022-baroPumpingMars-agu.md){: .btn--research}
