---
title: 'AGU 2022 Recap, and the #betterPoster movement' 
date: 2022-12-23
permalink: /posts/2022/12/aguRecap/
excerpt: "<img src='/images/posts/agu2022recapImage.jpg' alt='AGU poster session' width='300'>"
tags:
  - conferences 
  - updates 
  - planetary science
  - Mars
  - paleontology
  - dinosaurs
  - betterPoster
---

As always, AGU was a whirlwind. There have been times in the past where I've
gone into the conference gung-ho, but ultimately ended up burnt out and
somewhat disappointed. I wanted to try something different this year, since I
had recently heard about the
[#betterPoster](https://www.youtube.com/hashtag/betterposter) movement and
wanted a poster that stood out. More importantly, I wanted to generate
meaningful, insightful interactions with other researchers stopping by my
poster. I feel as though I absolutely achieved that this year. 

The #betterPoster movement is introduced in the video below by its creator,
Mike Morrison (@mikemorrison on Twitter). The message resonated with me as
someone who has been disappointed by conference poster sessions in the past
(both with the interactions my own poster generated, as well as with the
accessability of other posters). 

<iframe width="876" height="493" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/1RwJbhkCA58" title="How to create a better research poster in less time (#betterposter Generation 1)" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<br>
My institution, like many others in academia and industry, has its own poster
template we are encouraged to use (because of #branding). In the past, I've put
a lot of time into making the best poster I could using said template. Despite
my best efforts, I always ended up with a final product very similar to what
was mentioned in the video above, while generating many of the same issues.

This year, I decided to try something new to me and give the #betterPoster a
go. I am extremely happy with how my final poster ended up, and it ultimately
paid dividends in my interactions with the public during the poster session.
Every person I talked to was very invested in the topic, and I felt that the
poster flow was able to naturally guide topics of conversation. Obviously, it's
impossible to say whether this was all due to the poster layout, but my gut
tells me that visitors were able to quickly glean whether my poster was
something they were interested in without having to stop for a long time and
read. In all, I highly recommend giving the #betterPoster a try and seeing if
it works for you.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Had a great poster session at <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/AGU22?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#AGU22</a>! Tried something new with the <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/betterPoster?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#betterPoster</a> guidelines and will not be going back! Felt like it generated all meaningful interactions <a href="https://twitter.com/mikemorrison?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@mikemorrison</a> <a href="https://t.co/BorcyXgN3G">pic.twitter.com/BorcyXgN3G</a></p>&mdash; John P. Ortiz (@JohnPOrtiz14) <a href="https://twitter.com/JohnPOrtiz14/status/1606472686242525184?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">December 24, 2022</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

Plus, it's so easy, even a baby can do it!
![gloPoster](/images/posts/gloBetterPoster_crop.jpeg)   

------

# Extracurriculars

It was also amazing to finally make the pilgrimmage to the Field Museum of Chicago and meet Sue! It has been a dream of mine for a while. 

![meAndSue](/images/posts/meAndSue.jpg)   

*You can't see how how big I'm smiling in this photo.*
